the problem of what to do with all of
our trash is one of the most burning
issues today globally people produce a
staggering 1.3 billion tons of waste
every year this garbage is just
accumulating on earth and bringing harm
to both people and the environment
so why don't we just send all this waste
off to burn up in the Sun well before we
get into that you need to understand
just how much trash we're talking here
if you load it just a year's worth of
the world's waste on trucks and line
them all up bumper-to-bumper this line
would wrap around the planet 24 times
every single day people all over the
world throw away 3.5 million tons of
trash unfortunately it gets worse there
are predictions that by the year 2100
there will be three times more waste
reaching a whopping 11 million tons a
day if you're wondering just how such a
tremendous amount of trash can collect
on the planet consider this in general
people throw away 99% of all the things
they bought within six months of
purchasing them right now we need 1.7
earths to get enough resources to
support normal life and store all the
ways that's why it comes as no surprise
that someone came up with the idea to
simply launch it all in the space and be
rid of it while that sounds like an
effective solution to the waste crisis
as of right now it just wouldn't work
first of all people would have to launch
this garbage straight into the Sun now
as big as the Sun is it's also really
far away so the calculations would still
have to be super precise on top of that
scientists would have to predict all the
possible dangers or mishaps and that's
just impossible the thing is if
something went wrong all this waste
would end up on our planets outer
the sphere and there's already enough
trash floating around earth thanks to
all the space missions that have been
launched by different countries
satellites that don't work anymore and
rocket and spacecraft parts create
dangerous traffic around the planet
unfortunately this space garbage already
causes significant problems for
different satellites as it is besides it
poses a potential risk to the
International Space Station the trash
can hit astronauts while they're out on
a spacewalk or it can punch holes in the
sides of the station the trash that's up
there now has already damaged several
satellites for example in 1996 a French
satellite became a victim of a hit and
run space collision a 10-year old piece
of an arien rocket collided with the
satellite the latter spun off its course
which caused a lot of turmoil in the
control center the situation with space
garbage is so critical that there's an
organization called Space Surveillance
Network that's responsible for
monitoring space trash and changing
satellite routes to avoid collisions the
worst thing about space collisions is
that when one satellite gets damaged it
affects others too many satellites work
in networks so if one part fails the
whole thing will stop functioning for
instance just one damaged GPS satellite
could disrupt the work of different
banking and financial organizations it
mess up air travel and even the GPS on
your phone or in your car would stop
working after some time all that trash
that had been sent off to space could
move so low that it returned to the
Earth's atmosphere naturally some part
of it would burn up during this process
but the biggest chunks could start
falling back to the planet you can't
imagine what destruction that would
cause but even if the trash didn't hit
anything important on the surface and
simply burned up in the atmosphere it
still pose a threat to both people and
the environment the problem is that when
garbage burns it produces dioxins which
are toxic chemicals these chemicals can
cause serious illnesses such as heart
disease lung problems or even cancer now
you can understand why it might not be
worth launching our trash in the space
but you know garbage
floating around the planet or crashing
back down isn't the only argument
against this idea the main issue is the
cost of such an endeavor let's do the
math together it costs about ninety
million dollars to launch a medium-sized
rocket its maximum capacity is 70 tons
of materials that means if people
decided to get rid of all the trash that
accumulates in a year they need to
launch roughly 18 million 250,000
rockets that's a lot of rockets multiply
that by 90 million a pop and you can
clearly see how this quadrillion that's
15 zeros by the way dollar project would
just be impossible actually it'd be over
1.6 quadrillion if you want to be exact
and you should remember that once you've
launched these super expensive Rockets
they won't ever return to Earth besides
don't forget about the launch pads to
launch such a whopping number of rockets
you need an area about the size of the
entire US that's why unfortunately the
idea of launching garbage toward the Sun
or even into the Earth's orbit won't
help humans out people will just need to
deal with this issue on their own but
don't panic just yet scientists all over
the world are hard at work coming up
with innovative ways to get rid of all
the trash and they include building
blocks made of trash soon we might see
machines based on industrial waste
compaction devices but unlike the
already existing ones that crushed up in
the cubes these giants trash compactors
would create special puzzle blocks that
would be used later in construction
their shapes could be programmed to
create windows domes walls or archways
this way transparent plastic could be
used to make windows and metals could be
turned into skeletal frameworks as for
organic waste it could be used for
temporary scaffolds that would decompose
later recycling garbage sweden is known
for its diligent recycling practices in
one way or another they recycle almost
99% of household waste people separate
all the waste that can be reprocessed
and take it to nearby recycling
stations or leave it in special
containers in their neighborhood but
that's not all
sweet and imports waste from other
countries too it sounds weird at first
but they actually burn this trash and
turn it into energy
the first waste incineration plant
appeared way back in 1904 and there are
now 32 plants throughout the country
interestingly enough the Swedes have
managed to decrease heavy-metal
emissions by a staggering 99% in
comparison with 1985 at the same time
the amount of incinerated garbage has
tripled half of all household waste from
all over the country is burnt at these
plants since waste is pretty cheap it
can serve as a great alternative fuel
naturally there is some ash left after
the trash gets burnt but it's only 15
percent of the initial weight plant
workers separate metal from this ash and
it goes to further recycling as for tile
and porcelain they're later used in road
construction the remaining 1% from the
initial amount of waste goes to
landfills and dumps and remember how the
smoke from burning trash is usually
extremely toxic
well incineration plants in Sweden have
special filters that don't let any
harmful substances through on the other
hand some people believe that this
strategy has its own drawbacks
they say that burning garbage to produce
energy sabotages the recycling process
for example paper can be recycled up to
6 times only after that does it turn
into dust besides burning products or
materials and using that energy to make
new ones is more energy consuming than
recycling the already existing things
however the Swedish are working on this
problem for example producers are
encouraged to manufacture things that
will have a longer lifespan Recruiting
plastic eating bacteria in 2016 the
world got some incredible news a
bacterium living in a Japanese waste
dumps seem to enjoy chowing down on PE
tea or polyethylene terephthalate this
is the material used to make plastic
bottles
the bacteria made this stuff and used
this artificial material as an energy
source in other words the bacterium
produces enzymes that can break down
plastic much faster than Mother Nature
can so instead of 450 years it takes
just a couple of days for the PE tea to
decompose
it's no wonder scientists are working on
creating an artificially engineered
plastic eating enzyme that they could
put in massive industrial reactors this
substance would break plastic down into
its building block components very fast
if researchers succeeded it could be the
answer to getting rid of plastic waste
besides it would mean that let's say
plastic bottles will undergo full
recycling it may lead to a drop in oil
drilling because new plastic products
will be produced from old ones seems the
future is looking brighter every day do
you recycle or try to lead a low waste
lifestyle leave your methods in the
comments below
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay from the bright side of life
you